Map Files for edit (#91)
mulesoft/docs-partner-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/create-map-inbound-x12-json-xml copy.adoc

> = Create a Map For Inbound X12 to JSON/XML

Reviewer: "for" is lowercase in titles; see SR entry "capitalization"
GLOBALLY replace "/" with either "and" or "or," per SR entry "slash (/)"

```suggestion
= Create a Map for Inbound X12 to JSON or XML
```

> Follow these steps to create the DataWeave map in Anypoint Studio to transform inbound EDI X12 messages to your application message formats, such as XML or JSON.

Reviewer: Reword to create an intro that is not self-referential ("follow these steps"), that explains WHY your audience wants or needs to perform this task, and that prepares the audience for the specific content included by mentioning the subtasks.

> == Create a New Project From a Template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create a New Project from a Template
```

Reviewer: Include an intro that makes clear how creating a new project from a template is related to its container topic of creating a map.

. Launch Anypoint Studio.
. From the *File* menu, select *New > Project from Template*. 

> . Log in to Anypoint Exchange with your Anypoint platform credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to Anypoint Exchange with your Anypoint Platform credentials.
```

. Search for `X12`.
. Click the template named `Template to map inbound EDI X12 transactions to application message format`.

> . Click *Open*, to create a new project in your Studio workspace pre-loaded with the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Open* to create a new project in your Studio workspace that is preloaded with that template.
```

== Set the Source X12 Message Type

> The template has the X12 configuration for the below X12 transaction set:

Reviewer: Which template? We cannot assume that audiences automatically read subtopics in order, so we need to be very specific in naming and setting contexts for each new task.

Reviewer: Aside from clarifying "The template has..."
```suggestion
The template has the X12 configuration for the following X12 transaction set:
```

* Version +
`4010`
* Transaction Set +
`850 (Purchase order)`

Follow these steps to set the source X12 message type for the map:

. Click the *Global Elements* tab at the base of the Studio canvas in `global-configs.xml`.
. From *Global Configuration Elements*, select *X12 EDI Inbound* and click *Edit*.

> . In *Name*, change the name of the configuration.

Reviewer: Do we have any naming recommendations? Is "customize" better than "change"?

> . In the *Schema definitions*, select *Edit inline*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Schema definitions*, select *Edit inline*. 
```

> . Select the value */x12/004010/850.esl* and click the edit icon.

Reviewer: Is is clear which icon represents editing? Should we describe or use a tiny screen-cap image?

> . Change the Schema value to the version and transaction set you want to map from. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Change the schema value to the version and transaction set you want to map from. +
```

> For example, set the *Value* to `/x12/004010/204.esl`, if you want to map to a `4010-204 Load tender` transaction. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, set *Value* to `/x12/004010/204.esl` if you want to map to a `4010-204 Load tender` transaction. 
```

== Set the Target JSON or XML Message Type

> To set the target JSON or XML message type for the map:

Reviewer: Try to offer more value than simply repeating the title in the text that transitions from title to steps.
Perhaps offer contextual flow like "After <you do this>, set the target...:"

> . Copy the schema file of your target application message type into the `src/main/resources` folder in the template project.

Reviewer: Copy the file of your type? Not too sure what is being copied here....

Reviewer: Consider that some steps here might be clearer if accompanied by screenshots.

. From the *Mule Palette* view, click the *Transform Message* component and drag it on to the Studio canvas.
. Select the *Transform Message* component and in the output section, next to *Payload*, click *Define metadata*.
. Click *Add*.

> . In *Type id*, enter a new message type ID, for example: `enterprise-inbound-purchase-order`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Type id*, enter a new message type ID, for example, `enterprise-inbound-purchase-order`.
```

. Click *Create type*.

> . In the *Select metadata type* dialog window, from the *Type* drop-down menu, select *JSON* or *XML*. 

Reviewer: I've heard of dialog box but not dialog window, and many people use "dialog" alone. A way to avoid altogether is...:
```suggestion
. In *Select metadata type*, from the *Type* drop-down menu, select *JSON* or *XML*. 
```
OR
```suggestion
.From the *Type* drop-down menu in  *Select metadata type*, select *JSON* or *XML*. 
```

> . Browse to the location of the JSON or XML schema file you imported earlier and click *Select*. +

Reviewer: I think this refers to Step 1 and it seems to be worded more clearly than that step was.
We should probably choose between "copy into" and "import," and use that choice consistently to avoid confusion.
Also, instead of "earlier," consider naming "Step 1."

> You now see the X12 transaction set structure in the input pane on the left, and your application message structure (JSON or XML) in the output pane on the right. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new X12 transaction set structure displays in the input pane on the left, and your application message structure (JSON or XML) displays in the output pane on the right. +
```

> You can now begin mapping from input to the output.

Reviewer: This sentence appears to lead into the next task, but the title of the task that follows does not indicate mapping but rather testing the map. Clarify subtask chronology?
```suggestion
You can now begin mapping from the input to the output.
```

== Test the Map Locally

> Follow these steps to test the translation map locally in Anypoint Studio: 

Reviewer: ditto: instead of repeating the title, provide context and tell WHY your audience wants or needs to do this.

> . Right-click on the template project, and select *Run > Run as Mule application*.

Reviewer: What is the user actually clicking: a name? an icon?
```suggestion
. Right-click <this> and select *Run > Run as Mule application*.
```

Author: The template project could be named anything. It's best to just tell them to click on the template project, but I added navigation so they know where it is.

> . Use a REST client to POST an EDI message payload to the URL `+http://localhost:8081/x12/in+`. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use a REST client to post an EDI message payload to the URL `+http://localhost:8081/x12/in+`. +
```
Do not use the syntax/name POST as a verb.

The application returns the translated JSON or XML.

> . After you verify that the map works correctly, copy the DataWeave map from `src/main/resources/x12/IN-X12-version-transaction-to-applicationmessage.dwl` and rename it to something meaningful, for example: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After you verify that the map works correctly, copy the DataWeave map from `src/main/resources/x12/IN-X12-version-transaction-to-applicationmessage.dwl` and rename it to something meaningful, such as `IN-X12-4010-850-to-SAP-purchaseorder.dwl`.
```

> `IN-X12-4010-850-to-SAP-purchaseorder.dwl`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Later, when you create and configure an inbound message flow, you can import the `dwl` file in to the *Map* section of inbound message flow.

Reviewer: import in to > import to
```suggestion
Later, when you create and configure an inbound message flow, you can import the `dwl` file to the *Map* section of inbound message flow.
```

== See Also

> * xref:configure-message-flows.adoc[Create and Configure an Inbound Message Flow]

Reviewer: BREAK to commit and return to writer for iterative work.
